Extracted text

Node Weekly Issue 39 - June 12, 2014
    
        body {
            -webkit-text-size-adjust:none;
            -ms-text-size-adjust:none;
            margin:0; padding:0;
            font-family: 'helvetica neue', helvetica, arial, sans-serif;
        }
        .ExternalClass, .ExternalClass p, .ExternalClass span, .ExternalClass font, .ExternalClass td, .ExternalClass div {line-height: 100%;}
        table {border-spacing:0;}
        table td {border-collapse:collapse;}
        @media screen and (max-width: 600px) {
            table[class="container"] {
                width: 98% !important;
            }
            .aright, .aright TD {
                text-align: left !important;
                float: none;
            }
            td[class='block'] { display: block !important; float: none !important; text-align: left; width: auto; }
            .aright {
               padding-top: 8px;
            }
            .p14 { padding-left: 0px !important; padding-right: 0px !important; margin-left: 0px !important; margin-right: 0px !important;  }
            .iimg { display: none; }
        }
    



  
    
      
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            This week's Node news
                        
                        
                            Read this issue on the Web
                        
                    
                
            
        
      
      
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            Node Weekly
                        
                        
                            Issue 39June 12, 2014
                        
                    
                
            
        
       
          
				 Featured
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Notes from the Road — 
An update from Node’s project lead, TJ Fontaine, on the team’s efforts to travel around and engage with Node users on their home turf.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              TJ Fontaine
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Broadening Node.js Contributions — 
Bryan Cantrill reflects on some changes to the process behind contributing to the Node.js codebase. Until now, contributors have had to sign a CLA (Contributor License Agreement) but this requirement has now been removed, making it easier to get involved.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Joyent
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Real-Time Chat With Node.js' Readline and Socket.io — 
A tutorial by Matt Harzewski on using the readline module to create a powerful(ish) terminal-based prompt that you can then build a chat system on top of.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Nettuts+
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				 From our Sponsor
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              NodePing has everything you need to monitor your web app. 
                            
                        
                        
                            
HTTP and JSON content verification, WebSocket/Socket.io, SSL, DNS, FTP, PING, and more with full API. 200 monitors at 1 minute intervals for just $15/month includes all the alerts you need via SMS, email, Pushover, webhooks, twitter, etc. Free 15-day trial.
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              NodePing
                            
                        
                    
                
                    
                
            
				 Reading
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Seven Things You Should Stop Doing with Node.js — 
More of a conversation starter than a set of strict rules. Items include stopping using callbacks, console.log, semicolons (uh-oh!), comma first style, and more.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Azat Mardan
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              A Quick Interview with TJ Fontaine, Node.js Core Team Leader 
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Modulus
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Create a TV Show Tracker using AngularJS, Node.js and MongoDB — 
A superbly thorough and well-presented tutorial. It goes all the way from starting a new Express project through to deploying it on Heroku.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Sahat Yalkabov
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Receiving Emails with Node using Mailin 
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              DailyJS
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Automating Web Performance Measurement With PSI For Node 
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Addy Osmani
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Convention-based, Modular MVC with Shared Rendering in Node.js — 
Nicolas Bevacqua discusses the reasons he created the Taunus framework, what makes it different and how it works.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Flippin' Awesome
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Laser Intrusion Detection with Johnny-Five on Node.js — 
Rick Waldron hooks up a laser to JavaScript using Node and Arduino.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Bocoup
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Controlling a Relay with Johnny-Five on Node.js — 
Another practical article by Rick Waldron.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Bocoup
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              The Emperor’s New Clothes Were Built with Node.js — 
Emotions run high in both the pro- and anti-Node camps, Eric takes a saner look at some of the arguments around using it.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Eric Jiang
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              Node Hardware Hacking with Tessel 
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              DailyJS
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				 Libraries, Code and Tools
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              BridJS: Bind Any C Functions and Structures Without Writing Any Extra Native Code — 
A BridJ-like API for runtime binding of C functions and structs without writing any extra native code.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Olivier Chafik and Jia-Han Su
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              somewhere.js: A Small JSON File Database for Node.js 
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              David Rey
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              bud: A Minimalistic Task Manager 
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Azer Koçulu
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              node-drawille: Drawing in the Terminal with Unicode Braille Characters 
                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Bence Dányi
                            
                        
                    
                
            
				 Last but not least..
				
                
                    
                        
                            
                              We've Gone Global: Apply Today to Hack Reactor Remote — 
Previously only in San Francisco, attend the “Harvard” of Coding Schools wherever you are.  Limited half-scholarships being offered, classes start July 21st, recommended application deadline: June 24th.

                            
                        
                        
                            
                              Hack Reactor  Sponsored
                            
                        
                    
                
            
          
        
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            Published by Cooper Press.Want to sponsor an issue? See our media kit.
© 2014 Cooper Press Ltd. Email policy Privacy policyOffice 30, Fairfield Enterprise Centre, Louth, LN11 0LS, UK"Node.js" is a trademark owned by Joyent, Inc.The term "Node" is used with Joyent, Inc.'s kind permission.
                        
                        
                            Update your email addressor unsubscribe here